README.md, before:

# True Random Number Generator

A desktop application for generating cryptographically secure random numbers using multiple hardware entropy sources. Built with C++ and Dear ImGui for Windows.

**🏆 Platinum-Standard Validation**: Passes 8000 streams of **NIST SP 800-22**, 2 TB of **PractRand**, and **TestU01**, achieving Information Theoretic minimum entropy guarantees under **NIST SP 800-90B**. [Scroll down for detailed statistical results](#statistical-validation-results).

---

## Overview

TRNG collects entropy from physical and system sources to generate high-quality random output. Unlike pseudo-random number generators that rely on deterministic algorithms, TRNG harvests genuine randomness from hardware imperfections, user behavior, and operating system chaos.

The application supports two security modes:
- **TRUE RANDOMNESS (Consolidation)**: When collected entropy exceeds the output requirement, raw data is condensed using cryptographic hashing. This provides Information Theoretic Security.
- **PSEUDO-RANDOM (Expansion)**: When collected entropy is less than required, a CSPRNG (ChaCha20) is seeded via HKDF to expand the available entropy. This provides Computational Security.

---

## Entropy Sources

### User Input Sources

| Source | Method | Data Collected |
|--------|--------|----------------|
| **Microphone** | Thermal Noise | Least Significant Bit (LSB) of 16-bit audio samples at 44.1kHz |
| **Keystroke** | Timing Analysis | Flight Time (gap between keys) and Dwell Time (key hold duration) in nanoseconds |
| **Mouse** | Movement Tracking | X/Y coordinates with nanosecond timestamps, filtered for sensor drift |

### System Input Sources

| Source | Method | Data Collected |
|--------|--------|----------------|
| **Clock Drift** | Hardware Entropy | CPU cycle count delta during fixed OS timer windows; variations caused by thermal noise |
| **CPU Jitter** | Race Condition | Counter value from parallel thread races; influenced by OS scheduling and cache contention |

---

## Output Formats

- **Decimal Number** (0.0 - 1.0)
- **Integer Range** (custom min/max)
- **Binary String**
- **Custom String** (configurable character set)
- **Bit/Byte Output** (hex, base64, binary)
- **Passphrase** (123,565 word dictionary, ~16.5 bits/word)
- **One-Time Pad** (text or file encryption)

---

## Building

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- MSYS2 with MinGW-w64
- g++ with C++17 support

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/TRNG.git
cd TRNG

# Build (downloads ImGui automatically on first run)
./build.sh

# Run
./build/TRNG.exe
```

---

## Project Structure

```
TRNG/
├── src/
│   ├── main.cpp              # Application entry point
│   ├── core/
│   │   └── app_state.h       # Global application state
│   ├── gui/
│   │   ├── gui.h             # GUI declarations
│   │   ├── gui.cpp           # Style, menu, entropy bar
│   │   ├── gui_sources.cpp   # Input tabs, Collection Window
│   │   └── gui_output.cpp    # Output configuration
│   ├── logic/
│   │   ├── logic.h           # Logic declarations
│   │   └── logic.cpp         # Entropy calculation
│   └── platform/
│       ├── dx11.h            # DirectX declarations
│       └── dx11.cpp          # DirectX implementation
├── assets/
│   └── default_wordlist.txt  # Passphrase dictionary
├── external/
│   └── imgui/                # Dear ImGui (auto-downloaded)
└── build.sh                  # Build script
```

---

## Security Considerations

### Minimum Entropy Requirement

The application enforces a **512-bit minimum** for all output generation, regardless of the selected format. This ensures a baseline level of security even for small outputs.

### Cryptographic Architecture: Quad-Layer "National Security Grade"

All output generation uses a sophisticated four-layer pipeline designed to exceed NIST and NSA security recommendations:

1.  **Layer 1 (Masking)**: `ChaCha20` (RFC 8439) stream seeded by a `SHA-512` hash of the pool + context.
2.  **Layer 2 (Injection)**: **XOR Information Fold**. The raw entropy pool is XORed directly into the stream, ensuring Information Theoretic security (One-Time Pad property) when Input bits >= Output bits.
3.  **Layer 3 (Transformation)**: `AES-256` (FIPS 197) in CTR mode, using a dynamic key derived from the stream itself. This adds robust non-linearity.
4.  **Layer 4 (Whitening)**: Final `ChaCha20` whitening pass to remove any potential structural artifacts.

### Generation Modes

| Collected Entropy | Mode | Security Level |
|-------------------|------|----------------|
| < 512 bits | Blocked | Generation disabled |
| >= 512, < target | PSEUDO-RANDOM | Computational (3-Primitive Hardened CSPRNG) |
| >= target | TRUE RANDOMNESS | Information Theoretic (Math-guaranteed via Layer 2 XOR) |

## Documentation & Standards

| Component | Standard | Authority |
|-----------|----------|-----------|
| Hashing | FIPS 180-4 | NIST |
| Encryption| FIPS 197 | NIST |
| Stream | RFC 8439 | IETF |
| KDF | RFC 5869 | IETF |

## Statistical Validation Results

All tests run against the Quad-Layer CSPRNG pipeline output generated by the CLI tool `trng_gen.exe`.

### Summary

| Suite | Result | Key Metric |
|-------|--------|------------|
| **NIST SP 800-22** | PASS | 8000 streams (1 GB), ~99% pass rate across all tests |
| **PractRand** | PASS | 2 TB, 190 tests, 0 persistent anomalies |
| **NIST SP 800-90B** | PASS | ~7.36 - 7.53/8.0 min-entropy |
| **TestU01** | PASS (SmallCrush) | 15/15 SmallCrush tests passed |

---

### NIST SP 800-22 (Statistical Test Suite)

**Parameters**: 1,000,000-bit streams × 8000 streams | 1 GB input | `assess.exe` (sts-2.1.2)

| Test | Uniformity P-Value | Proportion | Passed/Total | Status |
|------|--------------------|------------|--------------|--------|
| Frequency | 0.4692 | 0.9906 | 7925/8000 | Passed |
| BlockFrequency | 0.4919 | 0.9905 | 7924/8000 | Passed |
| CumulativeSums | 0.8751 | 0.9906 | 15849/16000 | Passed |
| Runs | 0.3157 | 0.9888 | 7910/8000 | Passed |
| LongestRun | 0.9297 | 0.9892 | 7914/8000 | Passed |
| Rank | 0.3003 | 0.9896 | 7917/8000 | Passed |
| FFT | 0.0008 | 0.9858 | 7886/8000 | Passed* (margin) |
| NonOverlappingTemplate | 0.0803 | 0.9898 | 1171933/1184000 | Passed |
| OverlappingTemplate | 0.4238 | 0.9889 | 7911/8000 | Passed |
| Universal | 0.0878 | 0.9865 | 7892/8000 | Passed* (margin) |
| ApproximateEntropy | 0.0760 | 0.9895 | 7916/8000 | Passed |
| RandomExcursions | 0.6620 | 0.9904 | 38150/38519 | Passed |
| RandomExcursionsVariant | 0.1510 | 0.9904 | 85839/86670 | Passed |
| Serial | 0.8639 | 0.9902 | 15844/16000 | Passed |
| LinearComplexity | 0.1585 | 0.9905 | 7924/8000 | Passed |

**Result**: **PASS** — Massive 8000-stream scale (1 GB). All uniformity metrics passed cleanly (≥ 0.0001).

> **Explanation of Edge Cases**:
> - **FFT and Universal**: The strict NIST lower bound for 8000 streams is exactly 7893 passes (0.9867). FFT passed 7886 streams (missed by 7) and Universal passed 7892 streams (missed by 1). This microscopic variance (0.08% and 0.01% respectively) is standard statistical noise over 1 GB of data and does not represent a cryptographic flaw.
> - **RandomExcursions**: With skipped streams correctly filtered out, both Random Excursions tests show excellent >99.04% pass rates and solid uniformity.

---

### PractRand (v0.96)

**Parameters**: Direct pipe from `trng_gen.exe` | stdin8 mode | Progressive testing

| Data Processed | Tests Run | Time | Result |
|---------------|-----------|------|--------|
| 512 MB (2^29) | 118 | 3.5s | no anomalies |
| 1 GB (2^30) | 125 | 6.9s | no anomalies |
| 2 GB (2^31) | 132 | 13.7s | no anomalies |
| 4 GB (2^32) | 139 | 28.4s | no anomalies |
| 8 GB (2^33) | 145 | 54.5s | no anomalies |
| 16 GB (2^34) | 151 | 107s | no anomalies |
| 32 GB (2^35) | 157 | 214s | no anomalies |
| 64 GB (2^36) | 163 | 421s | no anomalies |
| 128 GB (2^37) | 169 | 821s | no anomalies |
| 256 GB (2^38) | 175 | 1629s | 1 mildly suspicious (noise) |
| 512 GB (2^39) | 180 | 3251s | no anomalies |
| 1 TB (2^40) | 185 | 7097s | no anomalies |
| 2 TB (2^41) | 190 | 13269s | no anomalies |

**Result**: **PASS** — 2 TB, 190 tests. The transient "mildly suspicious" flag at 256 GB (p=4e-5) disappeared at 512 GB and remained clear through 2 TB, confirming it was statistical noise. Passing 2 TB of PractRand is a definitive, platinum-standard validation indicating zero observable statistical bias.

---

### NIST SP 800-90B (Entropy Assessment)

**Parameters**: 1 MB, 10 MB, 100 MB input files | `ea_non_iid -a` | 8 bits per symbol

#### Non-IID Test (Recommended for CSPRNG)

| Run | Input Size | H_original | H_bitstring | Final Estimate |
|-----|-----------|-----------|-------------|----------------|
| 1 | 1 MB | 7.368524 | 0.924979 | **7.368524** |
| 2 | 10 MB | 7.487618 | 0.944990 | **7.487618** |
| 3 | 100 MB | 7.923559 | 0.936741 | **7.493927** |
| 4 | 100 MB | 7.926010 | 0.939662 | **7.517294** |
| 5 | 100 MB | 7.920303 | 0.941182 | **7.529456** |

> Final estimate = min(H_original, 8 × H_bitstring). Results vary slightly between runs due to fresh entropy each time.

#### IID Test (Informational Only)

| Metric | Value | Maximum | Percentage |
|--------|-------|---------|------------|
| H_original | 7.967199 | 8.0 | 99.6% |
| H_bitstring | 0.999465 | 1.0 | 99.9% |
| Chi Square | — | — | PASSED |
| Longest Repeated Substring | — | — | FAILED (expected for CSPRNG) |

**Result**: **PASS** — ~7.36 - 7.53/8.0 min-entropy (non-IID). IID test shows 7.97/8.0 entropy density.

> Note: The IID assumption test fails for CSPRNG output (expected — CSPRNGs are deterministic expansions, not truly IID). The non-IID estimate is the correct metric.

---

### TestU01

**Parameters**: Direct pipe from `trng_gen.exe` | `testu01_stdin` wrapper

| Battery | Tests | CPU Time | Result |
|---------|-------|----------|--------|
| **SmallCrush** | 15 | ~6s | **PASS** (15/15) |
| **Crush** | 144 | — | Pending |
| **BigCrush** | 106 | — | Pending |

#### SmallCrush Breakdown

A p-value outside of the `[0.001, 0.999]` range is considered a failure. All 15 statistics passed comfortably within the acceptable range, showing no signs of bias.

| Test | Statistic | P-Value | Status |
|------|-----------|---------|--------|
| `smarsa_BirthdaySpacings` | Poisson | 0.81 | Passed |
| `sknuth_Collision` | Chi-square | 0.29 | Passed |
| `sknuth_Gap` | Chi-square | 0.0082 | Passed |
| `sknuth_SimpPoker` | Chi-square | 0.93 | Passed |
| `sknuth_CouponCollector` | Chi-square | 0.32 | Passed |
| `sknuth_MaxOft` | Chi-square<br>Anderson-Darling | 0.89<br>0.19 | Passed |
| `svaria_WeightDistrib` | Chi-square | 0.24 | Passed |
| `smarsa_MatrixRank` | Chi-square | 0.01 | Passed |
| `sstring_HammingIndep` | Chi-square | 0.81 | Passed |
| `swalk_RandomWalk1` | H (Chi-square)<br>M (Chi-square)<br>J (Chi-square)<br>R (Chi-square)<br>C (Chi-square) | 0.81<br>0.80<br>0.85<br>0.02<br>0.48 | Passed |

**Result**: **PASS** (Partial) — SmallCrush passed flawlessly. BigCrush/Crush are pending long-duration runs.

### Timestamp Strategy

All entropy events are timestamped with 64-bit nanosecond precision:
- Full timestamp for chronological sorting
- Last 6-9 digits (micro/nanoseconds) contribute additional hardware jitter entropy

---

## Usage

1. **Configure Sources**: Select which entropy sources to include in the User Input and System Input tabs
2. **Start Collection**: Click "Start Collection" to begin gathering entropy
3. **Monitor Progress**: Watch the entropy bar fill; security mode indicator shows consolidation vs. expansion
4. **Configure Output**: Select output format and parameters in the Output tab
5. **Generate**: Click Generate when sufficient entropy is collected

---

## Dependencies

- [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) - Immediate mode GUI (auto-downloaded)
- DirectX 11 - Windows graphics API
- Windows API - Audio capture, input hooks, high-resolution timers

---

## License

MIT License

---

## Acknowledgments

- The cryptographic community for research on hardware entropy sources
- Dear ImGui for the excellent GUI framework

Commit message:

chore: add medium TestU01 results

README.md, after:

# True Random Number Generator

A desktop application for generating cryptographically secure random numbers using multiple hardware entropy sources. Built with C++ and Dear ImGui for Windows.

**🏆 Platinum-Standard Validation**: Passes 8000 streams of **NIST SP 800-22**, 2 TB of **PractRand**, and **TestU01**, achieving Information Theoretic minimum entropy guarantees under **NIST SP 800-90B**. [Scroll down for detailed statistical results](#statistical-validation-results).

---

## Overview

TRNG collects entropy from physical and system sources to generate high-quality random output. Unlike pseudo-random number generators that rely on deterministic algorithms, TRNG harvests genuine randomness from hardware imperfections, user behavior, and operating system chaos.

The application supports two security modes:
- **TRUE RANDOMNESS (Consolidation)**: When collected entropy exceeds the output requirement, raw data is condensed using cryptographic hashing. This provides Information Theoretic Security.
- **PSEUDO-RANDOM (Expansion)**: When collected entropy is less than required, a CSPRNG (ChaCha20) is seeded via HKDF to expand the available entropy. This provides Computational Security.

---

## Entropy Sources

### User Input Sources

| Source | Method | Data Collected |
|--------|--------|----------------|
| **Microphone** | Thermal Noise | Least Significant Bit (LSB) of 16-bit audio samples at 44.1kHz |
| **Keystroke** | Timing Analysis | Flight Time (gap between keys) and Dwell Time (key hold duration) in nanoseconds |
| **Mouse** | Movement Tracking | X/Y coordinates with nanosecond timestamps, filtered for sensor drift |

### System Input Sources

| Source | Method | Data Collected |
|--------|--------|----------------|
| **Clock Drift** | Hardware Entropy | CPU cycle count delta during fixed OS timer windows; variations caused by thermal noise |
| **CPU Jitter** | Race Condition | Counter value from parallel thread races; influenced by OS scheduling and cache contention |

---

## Output Formats

- **Decimal Number** (0.0 - 1.0)
- **Integer Range** (custom min/max)
- **Binary String**
- **Custom String** (configurable character set)
- **Bit/Byte Output** (hex, base64, binary)
- **Passphrase** (123,565 word dictionary, ~16.5 bits/word)
- **One-Time Pad** (text or file encryption)

---

## Building

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- MSYS2 with MinGW-w64
- g++ with C++17 support

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/TRNG.git
cd TRNG

# Build (downloads ImGui automatically on first run)
./build.sh

# Run
./build/TRNG.exe
```

---

## Project Structure

```
TRNG/
├── src/
│   ├── main.cpp              # Application entry point
│   ├── core/
│   │   └── app_state.h       # Global application state
│   ├── gui/
│   │   ├── gui.h             # GUI declarations
│   │   ├── gui.cpp           # Style, menu, entropy bar
│   │   ├── gui_sources.cpp   # Input tabs, Collection Window
│   │   └── gui_output.cpp    # Output configuration
│   ├── logic/
│   │   ├── logic.h           # Logic declarations
│   │   └── logic.cpp         # Entropy calculation
│   └── platform/
│       ├── dx11.h            # DirectX declarations
│       └── dx11.cpp          # DirectX implementation
├── assets/
│   └── default_wordlist.txt  # Passphrase dictionary
├── external/
│   └── imgui/                # Dear ImGui (auto-downloaded)
└── build.sh                  # Build script
```

---

## Security Considerations

### Minimum Entropy Requirement

The application enforces a **512-bit minimum** for all output generation, regardless of the selected format. This ensures a baseline level of security even for small outputs.

### Cryptographic Architecture: Quad-Layer "National Security Grade"

All output generation uses a sophisticated four-layer pipeline designed to exceed NIST and NSA security recommendations:

1.  **Layer 1 (Masking)**: `ChaCha20` (RFC 8439) stream seeded by a `SHA-512` hash of the pool + context.
2.  **Layer 2 (Injection)**: **XOR Information Fold**. The raw entropy pool is XORed directly into the stream, ensuring Information Theoretic security (One-Time Pad property) when Input bits >= Output bits.
3.  **Layer 3 (Transformation)**: `AES-256` (FIPS 197) in CTR mode, using a dynamic key derived from the stream itself. This adds robust non-linearity.
4.  **Layer 4 (Whitening)**: Final `ChaCha20` whitening pass to remove any potential structural artifacts.

### Generation Modes

| Collected Entropy | Mode | Security Level |
|-------------------|------|----------------|
| < 512 bits | Blocked | Generation disabled |
| >= 512, < target | PSEUDO-RANDOM | Computational (3-Primitive Hardened CSPRNG) |
| >= target | TRUE RANDOMNESS | Information Theoretic (Math-guaranteed via Layer 2 XOR) |

## Documentation & Standards

| Component | Standard | Authority |
|-----------|----------|-----------|
| Hashing | FIPS 180-4 | NIST |
| Encryption| FIPS 197 | NIST |
| Stream | RFC 8439 | IETF |
| KDF | RFC 5869 | IETF |

## Statistical Validation Results

All tests run against the Quad-Layer CSPRNG pipeline output generated by the CLI tool `trng_gen.exe`.

### Summary

| Suite | Result | Key Metric |
|-------|--------|------------|
| **NIST SP 800-22** | PASS | 8000 streams (1 GB), ~99% pass rate across all tests |
| **PractRand** | PASS | 2 TB, 190 tests, 0 persistent anomalies |
| **NIST SP 800-90B** | PASS | ~7.36 - 7.53/8.0 min-entropy |
| **TestU01** | PASS | 15/15 SmallCrush, 143/144 Crush (1 margin) |

---

### NIST SP 800-22 (Statistical Test Suite)

**Parameters**: 1,000,000-bit streams × 8000 streams | 1 GB input | `assess.exe` (sts-2.1.2)

| Test | Uniformity P-Value | Proportion | Passed/Total | Status |
|------|--------------------|------------|--------------|--------|
| Frequency | 0.4692 | 0.9906 | 7925/8000 | Passed |
| BlockFrequency | 0.4919 | 0.9905 | 7924/8000 | Passed |
| CumulativeSums | 0.8751 | 0.9906 | 15849/16000 | Passed |
| Runs | 0.3157 | 0.9888 | 7910/8000 | Passed |
| LongestRun | 0.9297 | 0.9892 | 7914/8000 | Passed |
| Rank | 0.3003 | 0.9896 | 7917/8000 | Passed |
| FFT | 0.0008 | 0.9858 | 7886/8000 | Passed* (margin) |
| NonOverlappingTemplate | 0.0803 | 0.9898 | 1171933/1184000 | Passed |
| OverlappingTemplate | 0.4238 | 0.9889 | 7911/8000 | Passed |
| Universal | 0.0878 | 0.9865 | 7892/8000 | Passed* (margin) |
| ApproximateEntropy | 0.0760 | 0.9895 | 7916/8000 | Passed |
| RandomExcursions | 0.6620 | 0.9904 | 38150/38519 | Passed |
| RandomExcursionsVariant | 0.1510 | 0.9904 | 85839/86670 | Passed |
| Serial | 0.8639 | 0.9902 | 15844/16000 | Passed |
| LinearComplexity | 0.1585 | 0.9905 | 7924/8000 | Passed |

**Result**: **PASS** — Massive 8000-stream scale (1 GB). All uniformity metrics passed cleanly (≥ 0.0001).

> **Explanation of Edge Cases**:
> - **FFT and Universal**: The strict NIST lower bound for 8000 streams is exactly 7893 passes (0.9867). FFT passed 7886 streams (missed by 7) and Universal passed 7892 streams (missed by 1). This microscopic variance (0.08% and 0.01% respectively) is standard statistical noise over 1 GB of data and does not represent a cryptographic flaw.
> - **RandomExcursions**: With skipped streams correctly filtered out, both Random Excursions tests show excellent >99.04% pass rates and solid uniformity.

---

### PractRand (v0.96)

**Parameters**: Direct pipe from `trng_gen.exe` | stdin8 mode | Progressive testing

| Data Processed | Tests Run | Time | Result |
|---------------|-----------|------|--------|
| 512 MB (2^29) | 118 | 3.5s | no anomalies |
| 1 GB (2^30) | 125 | 6.9s | no anomalies |
| 2 GB (2^31) | 132 | 13.7s | no anomalies |
| 4 GB (2^32) | 139 | 28.4s | no anomalies |
| 8 GB (2^33) | 145 | 54.5s | no anomalies |
| 16 GB (2^34) | 151 | 107s | no anomalies |
| 32 GB (2^35) | 157 | 214s | no anomalies |
| 64 GB (2^36) | 163 | 421s | no anomalies |
| 128 GB (2^37) | 169 | 821s | no anomalies |
| 256 GB (2^38) | 175 | 1629s | 1 mildly suspicious (noise) |
| 512 GB (2^39) | 180 | 3251s | no anomalies |
| 1 TB (2^40) | 185 | 7097s | no anomalies |
| 2 TB (2^41) | 190 | 13269s | no anomalies |

**Result**: **PASS** — 2 TB, 190 tests. The transient "mildly suspicious" flag at 256 GB (p=4e-5) disappeared at 512 GB and remained clear through 2 TB, confirming it was statistical noise. Passing 2 TB of PractRand is a definitive, platinum-standard validation indicating zero observable statistical bias.

---

### NIST SP 800-90B (Entropy Assessment)

**Parameters**: 1 MB, 10 MB, 100 MB input files | `ea_non_iid -a` | 8 bits per symbol

#### Non-IID Test (Recommended for CSPRNG)

| Run | Input Size | H_original | H_bitstring | Final Estimate |
|-----|-----------|-----------|-------------|----------------|
| 1 | 1 MB | 7.368524 | 0.924979 | **7.368524** |
| 2 | 10 MB | 7.487618 | 0.944990 | **7.487618** |
| 3 | 100 MB | 7.923559 | 0.936741 | **7.493927** |
| 4 | 100 MB | 7.926010 | 0.939662 | **7.517294** |
| 5 | 100 MB | 7.920303 | 0.941182 | **7.529456** |

> Final estimate = min(H_original, 8 × H_bitstring). Results vary slightly between runs due to fresh entropy each time.

#### IID Test (Informational Only)

| Metric | Value | Maximum | Percentage |
|--------|-------|---------|------------|
| H_original | 7.967199 | 8.0 | 99.6% |
| H_bitstring | 0.999465 | 1.0 | 99.9% |
| Chi Square | — | — | PASSED |
| Longest Repeated Substring | — | — | FAILED (expected for CSPRNG) |

**Result**: **PASS** — ~7.36 - 7.53/8.0 min-entropy (non-IID). IID test shows 7.97/8.0 entropy density.

> Note: The IID assumption test fails for CSPRNG output (expected — CSPRNGs are deterministic expansions, not truly IID). The non-IID estimate is the correct metric.

---

### TestU01

**Parameters**: Direct pipe from `trng_gen.exe` | `testu01_stdin` wrapper

| Battery | Tests | CPU Time | Result |
|---------|-------|----------|--------|
| **SmallCrush** | 15 | ~6s | **PASS** (15/15) |
| **Crush** | 144 | ~52m | **PASS** (143/144) |
| **BigCrush** | 106 | — | Pending |

#### SmallCrush Breakdown

A p-value outside of the `[0.001, 0.999]` range is considered a failure. All 15 statistics passed comfortably within the acceptable range, showing no signs of bias.

| Test | Statistic | P-Value | Status |
|------|-----------|---------|--------|
| `smarsa_BirthdaySpacings` | Poisson | 0.81 | Passed |
| `sknuth_Collision` | Chi-square | 0.29 | Passed |
| `sknuth_Gap` | Chi-square | 0.0082 | Passed |
| `sknuth_SimpPoker` | Chi-square | 0.93 | Passed |
| `sknuth_CouponCollector` | Chi-square | 0.32 | Passed |
| `sknuth_MaxOft` | Chi-square<br>Anderson-Darling | 0.89<br>0.19 | Passed |
| `svaria_WeightDistrib` | Chi-square | 0.24 | Passed |
| `smarsa_MatrixRank` | Chi-square | 0.01 | Passed |
| `sstring_HammingIndep` | Chi-square | 0.81 | Passed |
| `swalk_RandomWalk1` | H (Chi-square)<br>M (Chi-square)<br>J (Chi-square)<br>R (Chi-square)<br>C (Chi-square) | 0.81<br>0.80<br>0.85<br>0.02<br>0.48 | Passed |

#### Crush Breakdown

The Medium Crush battery ran 144 rigorous statistics over ~52 minutes. A strict p-value bounds of `[0.001, 0.999]` is used to flag anomalies.

| Test Category | Statistics Analyzed | Clean Passes | Status |
|---------------|---------------------|--------------|--------|
| **All Other Crush Tests** | 143 | 143/143 | Passed |
| `snpair_ClosePairs (t=7)` | 1 | 0/1 | Margin (0.9991) |

**Result**: **PASS** (143/144 passed cleanly). 
The `ClosePairs` statistic yielded a p-value of `0.9991`, missing the strict theoretical threshold by 0.0001. In a battery of 144 complex measurements, a single 0.9991 result is a standard mathematical artifact (statistical noise expected at an incidence rate of ~1 per 1000 tests) and does *not* indicate structural failure. BigCrush relies on days of processing and is pending.

### Timestamp Strategy

All entropy events are timestamped with 64-bit nanosecond precision:
- Full timestamp for chronological sorting
- Last 6-9 digits (micro/nanoseconds) contribute additional hardware jitter entropy

---

## Usage

1. **Configure Sources**: Select which entropy sources to include in the User Input and System Input tabs
2. **Start Collection**: Click "Start Collection" to begin gathering entropy
3. **Monitor Progress**: Watch the entropy bar fill; security mode indicator shows consolidation vs. expansion
4. **Configure Output**: Select output format and parameters in the Output tab
5. **Generate**: Click Generate when sufficient entropy is collected

---

## Dependencies

- [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) - Immediate mode GUI (auto-downloaded)
- DirectX 11 - Windows graphics API
- Windows API - Audio capture, input hooks, high-resolution timers

---

## License

MIT License

---

## Acknowledgments

- The cryptographic community for research on hardware entropy sources
- Dear ImGui for the excellent GUI framework
